# America soft drink sales performance

## Exploratory Data Analysis Project on Soft Drink Soda Sales (EDA) 

### Overview 
- This Softdrink sales project contain the track sales of various beverages 
in United state of America from three different companies break down e.g sales, cost and profit by product,category and customer location. Each row represent a unique product sold in a particular region.

### A. Business Objectives

- 1. What is the total revenue generated by each company?
- 2. Which product is the most sold based on units sold?
- 3. What is the profit margin by company (Profit as a percentage of Revenue)?
- 4. Which states have the highest sales in terms of revenue?
- 5. What is the relationship between units sold and profit?
- 6. Which product categories generate the most revenue?
 
  ### B. Data Analysis
##### Our dataset  for this project was been download from [data.world.org](https://data.world/vizwiz/sample-soda-sales)
#### with title: Soft_drink _soda _sales
- Import Required library
- Cleaning of the dataset
- Exploratory Analysis

  ### Tools Uses
  _ Python Vscode Jupyter Notebook
  - Tableau Dashboard 

  ### C. Present  Finding And Recommendation

  ### 2. Insight And Recommendation 
#### Based on this Exploratory data Analysis conducted, here some of the business insight and recomendationthat could be drawn below


## Maximise Revenue from Top Company
- Insight : As you can see that company like Coca-cola has highest or generate significant revenue compare to 
    Pepsi and Dr. Pepper
- Recommendation : if both firm come in partnership or co-branding they will maintain top high revenue by increasing their market share in the market

  ## Target Sales with high revenue 
- Insight: if we study graph above we can see some certain state like Minnesota, Hawaii and New York have 
highest revenue compare to Alaska and Arizona
- Recommendation: An increase marketing and distribution effort in high revenue state with loyalty or promotion
programe with local retailer will further increase high performing market more in those state

## Balance between Unit Sold And Profit
- Insight: They are some products that sell in high volume but they don't necessary generate high profit
vice versa
- Recomendation: To strike a balance between volume-driven and profit-driven products. Ensure that products 
with high sales volume but low profit margins have an optimized supply chain or adjusted pricing strategies. 
For high-profit but low-volume products, explore ways to increase awareness and visibility. etc
